**3GPP TSG-SA WG2 Meeting #174 S2-2602302**

**Malta, Malta, April 13 – 17, 2026**

**Source: NTT DOCOMO, Deutsche Telekom**

**Title: [KI#22, Solution#22.7 new Variant] Authorization of a UE Request for Computing PDU Session Establishment**

**Document for: Approval**

**Agenda Item: 20.6.22**

**Work Item: FS\_6G\_ARC**

*Abstract of the contribution: This is a solution update for a new variant under solution #22.7 addressing bullet #a of KI#22.2.*

# 1. Introduction

This contribution is prepared to update the following aspects captured in clause 6.22.7 of [S2-2601619](https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/WG2_Arch/TSGS2_173_Goa_2026-02/Docs/S2-2601619.zip), which was compiled by the pen-holder in SA2#173.

High-level principles,

Description,

Procedures

# 2. Text proposal

It is proposed to agree the following changes against TR 23.801-01:

\* \* \* First Change \* \* \* \*

## 6.22 Solutions to KI#22

### 6.22.7 Solution #22.7: Subscription based Computing Service Authorization to UE/AF without Explicit Authorization Indication to UE/AF

#### 6.22.7.0 Topics addressed and High-level Solution Principles

**NOTE (from Pen holder):** This solution category is assumed to only address bullet#22.2a.

The solution addresses bullet #2a of KI#22 and is extracted from Solution #7 and 33 in Annex X.22.

The variant A is based on the following principles:

Computing Service enablement defines service semantics and expectations, rather than computing execution.

Enablement is associated with a specific service or PDU session context and influences subsequent service handling.

Policy control and exposure are treated as a single capability cluster at the architectural level.

Detailed realization of computing execution and orchestration is outside the scope of this solution.

The variant B is based on the following principles (from Solution #7 in Annex X.22) :

When a UE requests to establish a PDU session for a computing service, it includes a computing service indication

When the indication is included in the PDU session establishment request, the eSMF selects the CCCE, which authorizes the UE request based on the UE subscription information that includes both UP and computing service related information.

#### 6.22.7.1 Description

Editor’s note: The solution description is FFS.

For variant B, as detailed in Clause 6.22.2, the computing service request is initiated by the UE through the inclusion of a computing service indication in the PDU Session Establishment Request message. Upon receiving this indication, the eSMF selects the CCCE instead of the ePCF to perform policy association, and the CCCE authorizes the UE request by retrieving subscription information from the eUDM.

#### 6.22.7.2 Procedures

Editor’s note: Procedures are FFS.

For variant B, the detailed procedures are explained in the variant B part of Clause 6.22.2.

#### 6.22.7.3 Services, Entities and Interfaces

Editor’s note: Impacts are FFS.

#### 6.22.7.4 Open Issues

TBD.

\* \* \* End of Changes \* \* \* \*