**3GPP SA WG2#174 S2-2601933**

**Malta, Apr.13th – 17th , 2026 (Revision of S2-260xxxx)**

**Source: OPPO**

**Title:** **[KI#22, Solution#22.5 Variant #a update] URSP based Computing Service Authorization to UE**

**Spec: 3GPP TR 23.801-01-040**

**Agenda item: 20.6.22**

**Work Item / Release: FS\_6G\_ARC / Rel-20**

**Document for: Approval**

*Abstract of the contribution: This is a solution update for variant #a under solution #22.5 addressing bullet #a of KI#22.2.*

# 1. Discussion

This is a solution revision based on S2-2600409 at SA2#173 to accommodate the approved the structure and clause numbers for KI#22.

**\* \* \* \* First Change \* \* \* \***

## 6.0 Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues

Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues

|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Key Issues | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
| Solutions | #22 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| #22.5 | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

**\* \* \* \* 2nd Change (all new text) \* \* \* \***

## 6.22 Solutions to KI#22

### 6.22.5 Solution #22.5: Computing Service Authorization to UE by PCF/CCF based on UE Policy

#### 6.22.5.0 High-level solution Principles

**NOTE (from Pen holder):** This solution category is assumed to only address bullet#22.2a.

This solution addresses the bullet #2a under KI#22.

This solution is extracted from Solution #12, 18, 25 in Annex X.22.

There are two variants:

URSP based (From Solution #12, 18, 25 in Annex X.22) from PCF: In order to enable the Computing Service to UE, the Computing related UE Policy (i.e., URSP enhanced with new computing related parameter) needs to be provisioned to UE in order to make UE aware whether, where and when it can use the Computing Service to establish the according PDU Session supporting computing.

Computing Policy based from CCF (from Solution #12 in Annex X.22):

- The CCF generates and provides the computing service policy to UE, which can assist UE to decide whether triggers computing service request and determines the offloading decision.

- The UE requests computing service from 6G network, and if the service request is authorized based on subscription data, the CCF selects the computing site(s) to execute the computing task for UE.

#### 6.22.5.1 Description

Editor’s note: The solution description is FFS.

##### 6.22.5.1.1 Variant a: URSP based Computing Service Authorization to UE

URSP defined in TS 23.503 is enhanced to authorize Computing Service to UE:

A new Information name (i.e., Indication for Supporting Computing) is added in the URSP Rule (see table 6.6.2.1-2 in TS 23.503).

The Connection Capabilities in the Traffic descriptor of a URSP Rule (see table 6.6.2.1-2 in TS 23.503) is enhanced to indicate Computing, which can be used by an Application in the UE to request Computing support during PDU Session establishment procedure.

The Computing Related Parameters (e.g., Computing Resource Type, Computing Latency Requirement, Computing Throughput Requirement, Computing Storage Requirement, etc.) are included in the Route Selection Components (see table 3.1.1.1-3 in TS 23.503) of a URSP Rule for Computing. The UE includes the Computing Related Parameters in the Computing Session Request message sent to 6G CN.

UE evaluates the URSP Rules for Computing to determine whether to establish a new Computing Session or use an existing Computing Session.

The UE Policy delivery procedure defined in TS 23.502 can be reused.

#### **6.22.5.2 Procedures**

Editor’s note: Procedures are FFS.

##### 6.22.5.2.1 Procedures for Variant a: URSP based Computing Service Authorization to UE

No impact to the UE Policy Delivery procedures defined by KI#1 and KI#6.

#### 6.22.5.3 Impacts on Services, Entities and Interfaces

Editor’s note: Impacts are FFS.

#### 6.22.5.4 Open Issues

TBD.

**\* \* \* \* End of Changes \* \* \* \***