**3GPP TSG-SA WG2 Meeting #174 S2-2602303**

**Malta, Malta, April 13 – 17, 2026**

**Source: NTT DOCOMO, Deutsche Telekom**

**Title: [KI#22, Solution#22.11 new Variant] Computing resource management through SHE controller**

**Document for: Approval**

**Agenda Item: 20.6.22**

**Work Item: FS\_6G\_ARC**

*Abstract of the contribution: This is a solution update for a new variant under solution #22.11 addressing bullet #b of KI#22.3.*

# 1. Introduction

This contribution is prepared to update the following aspects captured in clause 6.22.11 of [S2-2601619](https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/WG2_Arch/TSGS2_173_Goa_2026-02/Docs/S2-2601619.zip), which was compiled by the pen-holder in SA2#173 as well as the agreed [S2-2601642](https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/WG2_Arch/TSGS2_173_Goa_2026-02/Docs/S2-2601642.zip).

High-level principles,

Description,

Procedures

# 2. Text proposal

It is proposed to agree the following changes against TR 23.801-01:

\* \* \* First Change \* \* \* \*

## 6.22 Solutions to KI#22

### 6.22.11 Solution #22.11: CP Function monitors the Computing Resources status in Computing Node/Site

#### 6.22.11.0 Topics addressed and High-level Solution Principles

**NOTE (from Pen holder):** This solution category is assumed to only address bullet#22.3b.

This solution addresses bullet#3b of KI#22 and is extracted from Solution # 5, 7, 19 in Annex X.22.

There are two options:

A CMF (Computing Management Function) is introduced to collect and manage the computing resources of Computing Nodes/Sites in 6G CN.

A CCCE (Communication Computing Coordination Entity) is introduced to communicate with the SHE controller, which is responsible for managing computing resources in its implementation.

#### 6.22.11.1 Description

Editor’s note: The solution description is FFS.

In variant B, a CCCE (Communication Computing Coordination Entity) communicates with the SHE controller, which is responsible for managing computing resources in its implementation (out of scope in 3GPP SA2). SA2 should standardize the interface between the CCCE and SHE Controller. Through this communication, the CCCE can determine whether the computing sites managed by the SHE controller can meet the SHE requirements and, if so, request the reservation of the necessary resources. When a computing site in use can no longer support the SHE requirements, the CCCE receives a notification about the change.

#### 6.22.11.2 Procedures

Editor’s note: Procedures are FFS.

For variant B, the detailed procedures are explained in the variant B part of Clause 6.22.2.

#### 6.22.11.3 Services, Entities and Interfaces

Editor’s note: Impacts are FFS.

#### 6.22.11.4 Open Issues

TBD.

\* \* \* End of Changes \* \* \* \*